# Installation Guide of Arch Linux on Laptops for Deep Learning(NVIDIA)

*Notice : this tutorial may be deprecated due to later system updates.*

This guide is for users who want to install Arch Linux with on laptops with NVIDIA GPU for production of deep learning tool-chains; but issues my be encountered as DE lagging while running models on CUDA; nouveau driver raises FIFO errors; and being reluctant to use Manjaro destro instead. This guide gives instructions of installing Arch Linux with sddm/plasma on your laptop configuring your NVIDIA dGPU for CUDA only, and using intel iGPU for Desktop Envirnment without nouveau.

Passed laptop : Dell Precision 7540 (RTX3000, 32Gx3)

## 1. Preparation

* Download Arch Linux ISO file at [official site](https://www.archlinux.org/download/). You may need to check file integrity after downloading.

* Burn ISO file on a thumb drive after necessary backup from the drive, use Burning utility or use dd command

>\# dd if=\<Arch ISO file> of=/dev/\<thumb drive device>

## 2. Install Arch Linux (UEFI)

*Assume you do not have a dual boot and do not want it either.*

* Make Partition

use `fdisk`/`cfdisk` to create two partitions, the first one is for EFI with size ranging from 256M~512M and type 1(EFI), the second one is Linux with default type 0, you may want to create a swap while for a modern laptop with big ram and nvme SSD, this is not recommended.

* Make filesystem & connect to network

make EFI:

>$ mkfs.vfat -F32 /dev/\<your first partition>

make linux: there are several file systems available(ext4, f2fs, xfs, btrfs, etc.), but most time ext4 is the best choice except you want you system on a USB flash(f2fs).

>$ mkfs.\<file system> /dev/\<your linux partition>

If your laptop is wired, dhcpcd is running by default, usually network is avaliable.

* mount linux partition

>$ mount /dev/\<linux partition> /mnt

* install Arch : Stage 1

choose mirror:

edit `/etc/pacman.d/mirrorlist` to config the nearst and fastest mirror at your region, move the line of server to top.

start Installation Stage 1:

*You can choose different kernel version like `linux-lts` with `nvidia-lts`*

>$ pacstrap /mnt base linux linux-firmware xf86-video-intel nvidia vi vim sudo dhcpcd net-tools grub efibootmgr

>$ genfstab -U /mnt >> /mnt/etc/fstab

* install Arch : Stage 2

change root to your newly installed Arch:

>$ arch-chroot /mnt

config your host name:

>$ echo "`your host name`" >> /etc/hostname

set time:

>$ ln -sf /etc/


* install grub

* install wm and disable nouveau and nvidia-drm

blacklist nouveau

>$ echo "blacklist nouveau" >> /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf

blacklist nvidia-drm module, which conflicts with your wm, but keep nvidia module for CUDA.

>$ echo "blacklist nvidia-drm" >> /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf

repack kernel

>$ mkinitcpio -P

reboot, all done.
